why are there so many young adult vampire books about romance? romance isn't the problem, it's that these books are always a false love triangle with the girl, the "good guy" who is a vampire and loves her and would never hurt her, and the "bad guy" who also wants her and is fighting "good guy" to the death over her.

like, I'm sorry miss, but I don't care about your love life. i want to read a book about vampires, not a drama that happens to have vampires. I want to learn everything about these mythical creatures that burn in the sun and have telepathy and mind control, not about how much you like this guy and don't like that guy.

maybe the issue is that these books are about romance first and vampires second, when I'm looking for a book about vampires first. the two series I have this problem with are Vampire Diaries and Twilight, both of which are very clearly romance-first.



Random story idea to break a lot of tropes I don't like in modern vampire stories:

A guy is walking to whatever he has going on that day, school, maybe a job, when a girl walks up and starts flirting with him. He politely declines her advances and continues to his destination.

The next day, as he's walking to his obligations again, a different girl comes up and hits on him. A little odd this has happened two days in a row, but his response is the same as last time.

In the week following these two encounters, the two get closer to him, and he starts noticing little things about them. They are awfully pale, always protecting themselves from the sun, they never enter buildings, they seem to stay away from churches, he sees them on either side of a bridge over a river but never crossing it, and when they show up, people start whispering about beautiful the two are. He has never judged people by their looks, but vampires are said to be unnaturally attractive.

Then, on a suspiciously uninterrupted commute, he sees the two talking. He notes that they seem friendly, and continues on his way.

He asks one about the other, and she confirms his theory that they know each other. He asks if she knows whether her friend is into him, and